well spot here is usually cool calm and
collected
even though he's naughty too and he
likes to be just as naughty as stripe
but he's a bit more mellow and he's the
one that probably gets beaten up by his
brother
more so stripes usually the one to
do the naughtier things first but
spot took an opportunity while stripe
was sleeping to
feed him in something will you stop
fighting me
the cubs are now using anything and
anyone to try out their new teeth
so giles has a plan so this morning
we're going to see
if they want to use those carnacion
teeth that they've just got
[Music]
carnassial teeth are specialist molars
that allow carnivores to slice meat
efficiently
the fact that they've got those big
chewing teeth at the back
the ones that slice the meat is a good
indication to me that they're probably
at the point where they can start to
chew their own food
so if these guys are in the wild mum
would definitely be
taking them to where she's made a kill
and probably giving it a go themselves
it's a really really big step because if
they take well to this this morning then
you know we can move on to other stuff
this new phase often triggers the
development of another specific
tiger behavior they might get a little
bit possessive
if they really get into it if they
really like it you might see a little
bit of
swiping and snarling and being more food
focused than his brother
boys jars wants firstborn spot to give
it a go
and you're just the one i wanted um
what's this what is it
are you ready yeah oh
yeah excuse me
it's my hand no he got possessive
straight away but he's using his teeth
he's got the idea
to the side there you go if i just let
it go
he'd keep swallowing it so the fact that
i pull it to the side
makes him use his carnacious teeth which
are the ones that are designed for
chewing off
chunks of flesh
just i'd leave him alone for a second
turned into a tiger
no
[Laughter]
good boy it's all gone
and it's not long till stripe has his
turn this is stripe
and stripe normally isn't as driven for
his food as what spot is anyway but he's
doing a good job
it was the other way around with spot
eating the piece of meat
he wouldn't tolerate stripe jumping all
over him like this he'd be all
possessive so spot's more driven for the
food
the stripes giving it a go just
easy being possessive is completely
natural if they've made a kill in the
wild
then they're going to do all they can to
keep it they've spent a lot of energy
making that kill and if they don't eat
then they don't survive so it's worth
investing the energy
in being
right on the inside thigh it's worth the
energy
invest in trying to protect it spot
is the more affectionate one stripe is
the naughtier one but when it comes to
food
as you can see this little guy's
definitely much more driven therefore it
makes him a little bit more
possessive with the cubs getting
stronger and feistier
their days being able to live with giles
and his family
are numbered with an empty stomach
charles tries spot on some soft food
so good
they're eating okay i'm not going to
give them the full amount
that'd be good to get some bottle into
them as well
it's getting a little bit overzealous
bit too
pushy sure enough spot soon gets
his strength back
[Music]
and it's not long before he perks up and
begins to take on the family dogs
caesar and ruby
oh caesar's happy because his tail is
wagging
he did these whole trying to get him to
play thing oh here he goes
he'll do it again now
boy caesar good boy
once things are all tidied up charles
takes time to reflect on the impact the
cubs are having
on conservation
we're doing exactly what i set out to
achieve in that we are
raising significant funds that we're
going to put towards what i feel is
you know the most successful and
appropriate
tiger conservation program for sumatran
tigers
these cubs are raising more money per
day than it costs to run that program
every day
so every day that these guys are on
display we are saving the sumatran tiger
in cringey sub
national park
with the help of kerry and son kainen
he's got a new plan to help raise money
to save the wild sumatran tigers
tiger cub paw prints glad i don't have
to
deal with you when you're bigger you're
already bad enough
are you ready kinda to help
so these are gonna be the little
canvases that we uh
get their uh a little pores on
i'm thinking fifty dollars for report
every single last cent will go back into
conservation
[Music]
but as usual spot takes it all in his
stride
i got him going now
is he asleep yes
john mommy she's poor
[Music]
at least the water's nice and warm today
okay
if all 40 paw prints are sold that'll be
another two thousand dollars towards
protecting tigers in the wild
what's happening what's happening pal
okay we
okay it's right underneath the snow
right here
he's coming out
out here sticks are the only way to
capture the cub
without hurting it
we've got the last cub it's so good to
see him alive they're just immobilizing
him now
i can't believe he's seen it through the
storm
and i'm this close to a growling carving
it's moving a bit
the cub is given a calming setup
wait for the drug to take okay it can
take up to 10 minutes and when there's
others many people around it it's more
stress it's harder for the drug to take
advantage
[Music]
i just can't quite believe we've got him
you know every one of these cubs is so
important there's only 400 in the wild
and we really thought he died this one i
don't know how he's lasted
for about 10 days on his own without
mother
without his brother and his sister and
now hopefully he can join them
at the rehab center and one day come
back into the wild
the script is what we wanted get this
guy
he's he's got a second chance now just
which is all we can do
with the second chance
the sedative stops the cub from blinking
a gel protects its eyes from drying out
they've got to get this weak curb
somewhere warm
as quickly as possible
max has been following the curbs from
the beginning
we've got these special remote cameras
and we're rigging up the enclosure
for the cubs from now on they can't have
any human
interaction at all if they're going to
be released as wild tigers
so we've got to set up these cameras
drop way back
and then hopefully we'll get a glimpse
of them coming out for the first time
the team need to see how the cubs are
recovering from their ordeal
the last time max saw them one of the
cubs was in critical condition
[Music]
the cameras will allow scientists to
observe the cubs
from a cabin a hundred meters away
as night falls the cubs still haven't
emerged from the hut
max settles in to keep watch
i haven't really seen any activity yet
i think we all thought the cubs would be
coming out
all three of them together it's nearly
midnight now and
we've got the infrared lights up but we
haven't seen a
single sign of any cubs it might take a
few days
or at least a couple of nights before
they even come out
but to his surprise there's movement in
the enclosure
it's the third cub the one who almost
died
bloody hell they've grown he's looking
so healthy
they've been inside that huff for so
long
it's a real safe haven for them so
it's a massive leap for them but it's
just the start of the journey
a long long journey of becoming a tiger
again
i mean i really just want to come back
and see them in the day
by the next morning all three cubs are
out
over the next 12 months this space will
be enlarged
and live prey will be released so that
the cubs can learn to hunt
[Music]
incredibly these three cubs represent
one percent of the entire wild
population
[Music]
if their luck holds within a year they
could be back in the forest
the next generation of siberian tigers
[Music]
although charger has not gone far away
he rarely spends time with his family
but his presence in the neighborhood
keeps away young males looking for
territory
who might attack the cubs
the male cubs are already becoming
distinguishable from their sisters
by their more powerful build the male
on the left has a broader head than his
sister on the right
until now the cubs have behaved in a
largely similar way
eventually however their paths will
diverge
the females will each take up a
territory close to their mother
but the males will move much farther
away to find and if necessary fight for
territories of their own
for now however brothers and sisters
stick
closely together
they still have a lot to learn both
sexes have to know
how to fight the females to protect
themselves from
unwanted advances the males to take or
defend
a territory and siblings make excellent
sparring
partners
it looks violent but it's quite
disciplined and no blood is ever drawn
fighting adults use exactly the same
moves
but with claws unsheathed and then the
results from bouts like this
can be fatal
the tigers is now within striking
distance
but the deer knows something is up
[Music]
this is not the time to lose your nerve
ah
lessons are being learnt the hard way
but the cubs now know
when to leave it to the expert
this time the tigris leaves her students
behind
the deep cover allows her to move faster
than usual
she changes tack her best weapon
is surprise she could be anywhere
she kills just two meters from the
camera elephant it's a sandbar
plenty of food to go round
tigers often pluck their prey before
eating it
a habit they share with leopards
taking the carcass into cover will
conceal it from scavengers
the cubs immediately show how quickly
they learn from their mother
he's already making quite a good job of
removing the hair
oh i'm tired at the moment and thinking
of just the stress and the pressure and
you know makes me even more emotional
when i look at them but
if people just don't fall in love with
them and want to help us to
help them in the wild then there's
something wrong isn't there
there's something wrong
as media outlets from across the country
arrive
the message about tiger conservation has
the potential to reach an international
audience
the tiger team want to keep the stress
levels low for the cubs
as it could make or break the event
with everyone in place it's show time
they're on their way i can hear them so
it's really exciting
ladies and gentlemen please make welcome
australia zoo's head of tigers charles
clark
with our very special guest
as all eyes focus on spot and stripe
there's few people here
it's vital the cubs stay relaxed
so what we get you to do guys just first
of all is just stay where you are
that's why they get used to seeing so
many cameras and all of you in here
[Music]
the cubs quickly gain confidence and
start posing for the cameras
all righty well welcome along guys this
is strike
and the other one over the other side
there is spot we will be doing
cub encounters where guests have the
opportunity to come in and
meet the cubs and the good thing for us
is not only is that excellent
conditioning and training for the tigers
but ultimately that's going to allow us
to generate
funds and support for tiger conservation
giles can tell spot and striper relaxed
and invites the media to get their
exclusive
okay is everyone
[Music]
two very ready tiger clubs and it's
something that the public will have the
opportunity to do as well
it will be a paid experience and all
that money will go to help tiger
conservation
the cubs should be on display for the
next two months after that they might be
large enough to join the other tigers
it went really well in that the cubs
reacted really well to all of the
cameras there were so many people in
here but they went really well they
were wandering around interacting with
the media which is exactly what we
wanted
with the press gone the public flood in
for their first
chance to see spot and stripe
the whole day so far has been brilliant
in the fact that we rock up and there's
what
must be at least 50 60 people already
here
five minutes before they go on display
so
that's been a really good morning those
images that they were getting
at the cubs playing with each other and
interacting it should actually go
national and fingers crossed might even
start to get some exposure globally as
well which is great i don't care how
it's out there as long as we get it out
there
the cubs will now spend their days in
the new enclosure
but nights will still be spent with
giles and the family
the cub is beginning to understand his
mother's changing demeanor
every posture has a special meaning
when she has a target in her sights
nothing
will break her concentration
so
she has taken her prey completely by
surprise
she brings it down
[Music]
it's a samba dear
she partially throttles her victim but
doesn't kill it
she will use this one to give a lesson
to her cub
the mother leaves him to get on with it
but he
is not quite sure what to do
the throttle hold is one of the most
important things he has to learn
and he's making a good start
giving half-killed prey to a cub like
this
seems heartbreakingly cruel but learning
to deal with live prey
is a vital step on the path to becoming
an independent
hunter
spotted deer appear nearby
the cub decides to try his luck
his stalking technique has greatly
improved now
he's acting like a pro
he uses a tree trunk as cover
he places his paws with great care to
avoid making even the slightest rustle
now his success will depend on his
timing
[Music]
close but missed again nevertheless
this is real progress
family has moved into the shade but
there's very little space
by the time the cub returns there's no
place for him
his mother makes it clear that he's not
welcome she's starting to lose patience
with her grown-up family
the cubs are also far less tolerant of
one another
[Music]
even their games now have an aggressive
edge
it seems they want to play but are
nervous as to what might happen
again it's the females who show the most
aggression
the squabbling continues as one female
tries to settle down for a rest
[Music]
eventually this rivalry will force them
apart
mother is equally hostile she's
beginning the process of making her cubs
less dependent on her
so the female cub has to find a spot
of her own
she's not alone for long her brothers
are still ready to show affection
it's a peaceful interlude but an
increasingly rare one
[Music]